       Overview of Mutant Gene Symbols of Arabidopsis thaliana
				   
		       David W. Meinke, Curator
				   
		Phone: 405-744-6549; FAX: 405-744-7673
				   
		     email: btnydwm@osucc.bitnet


The attached list presents a comprehensive summary of mutant gene
symbols currently being used in research with Arabidopsis thaliana.

This list is (hopefully) limited to mutants with viable seeds and
established phenotypes that have been examined in some detail.

Additional information on certain mutant phenotypes is given in
parentheses.

Reference laboratory refers to the individual(s) involved in the
initial identification or subsequent characterization of each class of
mutants.  This reference is included to help locate individuals who
could provide further information on specific symbols.

This list does not include information on the total number of loci
given the same mutant gene symbol.  For example, there are 250
distinct emb loci (emb1 to emb250) and one bio locus (bio1), but each
symbol is given a single line.

A separate list summarizing all well-characterized mutant loci by
symbol and number will need to be prepared in the future.

Note that in some cases on the attached list (*) the same gene symbol
has already been assigned to unrelated mutants.  These conflicts will
need to be resolved to avoid further confusion in the literature.


Suggested Protocol for the Future:  


Mutants should be characterized in some detail before a formal gene
symbol is chosen and published.  This analysis should include
(whenever possible) mapping the chromosomal location of the mutant
locus.

Complementation tests should be performed with mutants that map to
similar regions and/or exhibit similar phenotypes to ensure that the
"new" mutant has not already been identified and assigned a different
name.


The standard system of nomenclature for Arabidopsis should be
followed:
   

A.  Mutant gene symbols should have 3 letters (underlined or italics)
in lower case.

B.  The wild-type allele should have these letters (underlined or
italics) in CAPS.

C.  Different genes with the same symbol are
distinguished by different numbers (for example: emb25 and emb26).

D.  Different alleles of the same gene are distinguished with a number
following a hyphen (for example: emb20-1 and emb20-2).

E.  When only a single allele is known, the hyphen (-1) is not needed
(thus: emb33 equals emb33-1 if only a single allele is known).

F.  When only a single gene is given a particular symbol, the number
is not needed (thus: lec equals lec1)

G.  The same nomenclature applies to both dominant and recessive
mutants.

H.  Cloned wild-type genes should be in CAPS (underlined or italics)
and the protein products of these genes should be in CAPS only.

I.  When picking a mutant gene symbol, avoid the use of symbols that
might have another meaning (for example, CHS currently refers to both
the wild-type allele of a chilling sensitive mutant (chs), and the
cloned chalcone synthase gene).
   
A large number of form and color mutants obtained from the Kranz
collection are currently available through the Nottingham stock
center.  These mutants have names that do not correspond to the
nomenclature described above.  The best approach with this collection
may be to select new symbols for mutants that have been further
characterized in preparation for publication.


In Order to Minimize Duplication of Gene Symbols:  


The attached list of mutant gene symbols will be added immediately to
AIMS, AAtDB, and stock center catalogs, and will be periodically
updated.  Check this list before you choose a new gene symbol.

Then contact the current curator of gene symbols (David Meinke: phone
405-744-6549; FAX 405-744-7673; email btnydwm@osucc.bitnet) to reserve
your new symbol prior to publication and ensure that someone else was
not also planning to use the same symbol.

This protocol must be followed in order to minimize problems in the
future.

Symbols can be reserved without details on mutant phenotype if there
is concern about providing too much information prior to publication.

Editors of journals will be informed of this policy to minimize the
chances of publishing a paper with a duplicate symbol.

Please report any mistakes or changes to the attached list to the curator as
soon as possible.  

Comments regarding this new system are also welcome.  Contact David
Meinke, Department of Botany, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater,
OK 74078, USA.
